Open main1.py. Before running it, what do you expect this program to do? 
I expect it to print greetings and ask me to input a string
Now right click on the window and select “Run Python File in Terminal”. Click in the bottom panel, and answer the question. Describe what happened. 
It output: 149-160-156-59:E01a-Control-Structues jacobbailey$
What do you think the program did with what you typed?
Nothing it just spit back out the name of the repository I think


Open main2.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main1.py. 
It ties the input function to a value then prints the value
What do you think the color = input() will do? 
ties my input to a value
Run the program in the terminal and answer the question. Did the program do what you expected?
Yeah it spit back out my color


Open main3.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main2.py. 
Gives me an if else condition
What is happening on lines 11–14? 
Gives a condition that directs output based on a certain input
Why are lines 12 and 14 indented? 
because they are a part of the code on the lines before 
Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you don’t capitalize Red? 
Prints "sorry try again"
What does this tell you about "color"?
the input must have bet capitalized in order to output the color


Open main4.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main2.py. 
has an or statement
What problem is this trying to solve? 
it will take in a non-capitalized color
Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you use some other capitalization scheme (i.e., “RED” or “reD“)?
prints "sorry try again"


Open main5.py. What do you expect line 11 to do? 
Allows for any variation of capitalizations in the word "red"
What problem is it trying to solve? 
allows the user to input any variation of "red"
Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you add spaces before or after the word (i.e., “  RED  “ or “ red”)?
"sorry try again"


Open main6.py. How is line 11 different than main5.py? 
added ".strip()"
What would you guess .strip() is doing? 
allows for spaces
Run the program and answer the question. Is there another way of writing “red” that will break this logic?
adding any sort of punctuation


Open main7.py. Before running this program, how do you expect this to be different than main6.py? 
allows for a different color
What is the purpose of line 11? 
allows for spaces and any capitalizations
Run the program and answer the question.



Open main8.py. What is the purpose of line 11? 
loops the program if the condition is still met
Why are lines 12–19 indented? 
they are apart of the while() statement
Run the program. What would happen if line 12 were moved before line 11 (and no longer indented)? 
it wouldnt keep looping the question
Make that change and run the program again. To end any Python program, you can type ctrl-c.



Open main9.py. What is happening on line 12? 
loops the program while the color does not equal red
What is the purpose of “count”? 
to record how many times the program loops
What is happening on line 22? 
prints the count value
Run the program.


*Extra credit:* open main10.py. Add a comment to each line describing what it is doing (a comment follows a pound sign [#]). 

Commit your changes and push them back to the repository. 

Did you do the extra credit?